today I'm going to show you an easy
method to take an advanced pipe coping
and make it available as a printable
pattern for the shop floor once the
pattern can be printed out and wrapped
around the tube physically it's then
easy to trace out the geometry we need
so the pipe can then be cut
appropriately I've done a little bit of
setup in advance of our session here
today so I'll take a section view on the
component and let you take a look at the
the actual cope that's taking place here
now that we've seen how those two pipes
join together let's go ahead and cut off
the remaining portion of the tube that
we don't need it's likely a good idea to
do this on a saved model or a second
secondary copy of your original as this
procedure is mildly destructive we're
going to choose plane number two and
under insert cut with surface we're
going to use that plane to crop off the
end of the pipe in this case we'll
choose a specific body and choose to
remove the majority of the pipe with
that stage complete it's time to use our
existing sketch number six that you see
here which is just a very very tiny
wedge it will be a small enough wedge to
open up the cylindrical component as a
sheetmetal part to do that I'll choose
an extruded cut
let's flip the direction over choose the
through all operation and once again
selecting a specific body to cut let's
hide that secondary body that's no
longer needed so we can get a clearer
picture of the end of the pipe in
question
as a last step in the process we're
going to bring up our sheetmetal toolbar
within our command manager and we'll
jump directly to the insert bends tool
will notice that the insert bends tool
often asks for a fixed face however the
second option is that we simply choose
an edge of our component
I'll leave the defaults in place for
this particular example and we see that
SolidWorks has gone through and
converted the part into a sheet metal
component this gives us the ability to
then flatten the part and then make it
available for print at a one-to-one
scale one method to do this would be to
right-click on the flat pattern feature
within the feature manager and choose
export to DXF for DWG that way once
we've exported the file we can open it
up and print the print the result in our
case here today I'm going to choose by
via ctrl select the few faces that I
need and use the normal two operation to
view our flat pattern and on this will
give me the ability to rotate the view
as I need so that I can then apply it to
a SolidWorks drawing
now that we have the flat pattern lined
up let's take a quick run through
placing that in a drawing sheet so it
can then be printed for use in the shop
we'll choose an a4 sheet and not bother
to display the sheet format as all we
need is the outline of our flat pattern
we'll drag in the current view make sure
we have that set at a one-to-one scale
so that when it's printed it can be
wrapped around the physical size of the
pipe let's rotate our view 90 degrees
just so it fits in the page and there we
have it the end result being a flat
pattern of the cope that we can print
cut out wrap or tape around the pipe in
question and then trace out the trace of
the coping with a magic marker paint and
chalk line whatever you happen to have
so that your manufacturing team can then
make the cut as desired I hope this
quick tip gets you through a pinch at
some point and we'll see you here back
in the javelin blog very soon
you